Vulvitis and Nonneoplastic Epithelial Disorders
 1. Which of the following is a common infectious cause of vulvitis that is NOT sexually transmitted?
A) Human papillomavirus (HPV)
B) Herpes simplex virus (HSV)
C) Neisseria gonorrhoeae
*D) Candida albicans
 2. A complication of vulvitis that leads to painful dilation of Bartholin glands is:
A) Condyloma acuminatum
B) Lichen sclerosus
*C) Bartholin cyst
D) Paget disease
 3. Lichen sclerosus is characterized by:
A) Thickening of the epidermis and hyperkeratosis
*B) Epidermal thinning with loss of rete pegs and dermal fibrosis
C) Presence of atypical squamous cells with koilocytosis
D) Increased epithelial mitotic activity without dysplasia
 4. Which of the following nonneoplastic epithelial disorders is associated with an increased risk of squamous cell carcinoma?
A) Lichen simplex chronicus
*B) Lichen sclerosus
C) Bartholin cyst
D) Condyloma lata
 5. The hallmark microscopic feature of condyloma acuminatum caused by HPV is:
A) Atypical glandular cells
*B) Koilocytosis
C) Squamous metaplasia
D) Hyperkeratosis without atypia

Carcinoma of Vulva and Vulvar Intraepithelial Neoplasia (VIN)
 6. The most common histological type of vulvar carcinoma is:
A) Melanoma
B) Basal cell carcinoma
*C) Squamous cell carcinoma
D) Adenocarcinoma
 7. HPV-associated vulvar squamous cell carcinoma is most commonly linked to:
A) HPV types 6 and 11
*B) HPV types 16 and 18
C) Treponema pallidum
D) Epstein-Barr virus
 8. Vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN) is most likely to progress to invasive carcinoma under which condition?
A) Presence of Lichen simplex chronicus
*B) Association with high-risk HPV infection
C) Absence of koilocytosis
D) Occurrence in postmenopausal women only

Extramammary Paget Disease
 9. Extramammary Paget disease differs from Paget disease of the breast in that it:
A) Is always associated with underlying carcinoma
*B) Is derived from epidermal progenitor cells
C) Does not involve the vulva
D) Has a lower recurrence rate

Vaginitis and Vaginal Tumors
 10. A characteristic feature of candidal vaginitis is:
A) Watery, gray-green discharge
*B) Curdy white discharge
C) Foul-smelling discharge
D) Purulent discharge
 11. Sarcoma botryoides (embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma) of the vagina is most common in:
A) Postmenopausal women
*B) Infants and children under 5 years old
C) Women with HPV infection
D) Women over 60 years old

Cervical Neoplasia
 12. The transformation zone of the cervix is the most common site for:
A) Endocervical adenocarcinoma
*B) Squamous cell carcinoma
C) Cervical polyps
D) Chronic cervicitis
 13. The viral oncoproteins responsible for HPV-induced cervical neoplasia act by:
A) Increasing squamous cell maturation
*B) Suppressing p53 and Rb tumor suppressors
C) Preventing viral replication
D) Enhancing apoptosis of infected cells
 14. The cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) grade III corresponds to:
A) Mild dysplasia
B) Moderate dysplasia
*C) Severe dysplasia and carcinoma in situ
D) Normal cervical epithelium

Cervical Screening and HPV Vaccination
 15. What is the recommended frequency for routine cervical cancer screening in women aged 25–49 years?
A) Every year
*B) Every 3 years
C) Every 5 years
D) Only after menopause
 16. The quadrivalent HPV vaccine protects against which HPV types?
*A) 6, 11, 16, 18
B) 6, 18, 31, 33
C) 11, 16, 31, 45
D) 16, 18, 45, 52